THE CONSCIENTIOUS CURATE AND THE BEAUTEOUS BALLET GIRL

BY WILLIAM RUSSELL ROSE


  Young William was a curate good,
    Who to himself did say:
  "I cawn't denounce the stage as vile
    Until I've seen a play."

  He was so con-sci-en-ti-ous
    That, when the play he sought,
  To grasp its entire wickedness
    A front row seat he bought.

_'Twas in the burlesque, you know, the burlesque of "Prince Prettypate,
or the Fairy Muffin Ring," and when the ballet came on, that good young
curate met his fate. She, too, was in the front row, and--_

  She danced like this, she danced like that,
    Her feet seemed everywhere;
  They scarcely touched the floor at all
    But twinkled in the air.

  She _entrechat_, her fairy _pas_
    Filled William with delight;
  She whirled around, his heart did bound--
    'Twas true love at first sight.

  He sought her out and married her;
    Of course, she left the stage,
  And in his daily parish work
    With William did engage.

  She helped him in his parish school,
    Where ragged urchins go,
  And all the places on the map
    She'd point out with her toe.

_And when William gently remonstrated with her, she only said: "William,
when I married you I gave you my hand--my feet are still my own."_

  She'd point like this, she'd point like that,
    The scholars she'd entrance--
  "This, children, is America;
    And this, you see, is France.

  "A highland here, an island there,
    'Round which the waters roll;
  And this is Pa-ta-go-ni-ah,
    And this is the frozen Pole."

  Young William's bishop called one day,
    But found the curate out,
  And so he told the curate's wife
    What he had come about

  "Your merit William oft to me
    Most highly doth extol;
  I trust, my dear, you always try
    To elevate the soul."

_Then William's wife made the bishop a neat little curtsey, and gently
said: "Oh, yes, your Grace, I always do--in my own peculiar way."_

  She danced like this, she danced like that,
    The bishop looked aghast;
  He could not see her mazy skirts,
    They switched around so fast.

  She tripped it here, she skipped it there,
    The bishop's eyes did roll--
  "God bless me! 'tis a pleasant way
    To elevate the sole!"