THE OLD-FASHIONED CHOIR

BY BENJAMIN F. TAYLOR


  I have fancied, sometimes, the Bethel-bent beam
  That trembled to earth in the patriarch's dream,
  Was a ladder of song in that wilderness rest,
  From the pillow of stone to the blue of the Blest,
  And the angels descended to dwell with us here,
  "Old Hundred," and "Corinth," and "China," and "Mear."
  All the hearts are not dead, not under the sod,
  That those breaths can blow open to Heaven and God!
  Ah! "Silver Street" leads by a bright, golden road--
  O! not to the hymns that in harmony flowed--
  But to those sweet human psalms in the old-fashioned choir,
  To the girls that sang alto, the girls that sang air!

  "Let us sing to God's praise," the minister said,
    All the psalm-books at once fluttered open at "York,"
  Sunned their long dotted wings in the words that he read,
  While the leader leaped into the tune just ahead,
    And politely picked out the key note with a fork,
  And the vicious old viol went growling along
  At the heels of the girls in the rear of the song.

  I need not a wing--bid no genii come,
  With a wonderful web from Arabian loom,
  To bear me again up the River of Time,
  When the world was in rhythm, and life was its rhyme;
  Where the streams of the year flowed so noiseless and narrow,
  That across them there floated the song of a sparrow;
  For a sprig of green caraway carries me there,
  To the old village church and the old village choir,
  When clear of the floor my feet slowly swung,
  And timed the sweet praise of the songs as they sung,
  Till the glory aslant of the afternoon sun
  Seemed the rafters of gold in God's temple begun!

  You may smile at the nasals of old Deacon Brown,
  Who followed by scent till he ran the tune down;
  And the dear sister Green, with more goodness than grace,
  Rose and fell on the tunes as she stood in her place,
  And where "Coronation" exultingly flows,
  Tried to reach the high notes on the tips of her toes!
  To the land of the leal they went with their song,
  Where the choir and the chorus together belong;
  O, be lifted, ye gates! Let me hear them again--
  Blessed song, blessed Sabbath, forever, amen!
