A REFLECTIVE RETROSPECT

BY JOHN G. SAXE


  'Tis twenty years, and something more,
    Since, all athirst for useful knowledge,
  I took some draughts of classic lore,
    Drawn very mild, at ----rd College;
  Yet I remember all that one
    Could wish to hold in recollection;
  The boys, the joys, the noise, the fun;
    But not a single Conic Section.

  I recollect those harsh affairs,
    The morning bells that gave us panics;
  I recollect the formal prayers,
    That seemed like lessons in Mechanics;
  I recollect the drowsy way
    In which the students listened to them,
  As clearly, in my wig, to-day,
    As when, a boy, I slumbered through them.

  I recollect the tutors all
    As freshly now, if I may say so,
  As any chapter I recall
    In Homer or Ovidius Naso.
  I recollect, extremely well,
    "Old Hugh," the mildest of fanatics;
  I well remember Matthew Bell,
    But very faintly, Mathematics.

  I recollect the prizes paid
  For lessons fathomed to the bottom;
  (Alas that pencil-marks should fade!)
  I recollect the chaps who got 'em,--
  The light equestrians who soared
  O'er every passage reckoned stony;
  And took the chalks,--but never scored
  A single honor to the pony!

  Ah me! what changes Time has wrought,
  And how predictions have miscarried!
  A few have reached the goal they sought,
  And some are dead, and some are married!
  And some in city journals war;
  And some as politicians bicker;
  And some are pleading at the bar--
  For jury-verdicts, or for liquor!

  And some on Trade and Commerce wait;
  And some in schools with dunces battle;
  And some the Gospel propagate;
  And some the choicest breeds of cattle;
  And some are living at their ease;
  And some were wrecked in "the revulsion;"
  Some served the State for handsome fees,
  And one, I hear, upon compulsion!

  LAMONT, who, in his college days,
  Thought e'en a cross a moral scandal,
  Has left his Puritanic ways,
  And worships now with bell and candle;
  And MANN, who mourned the negro's fate,
  And held the slave as most unlucky,
  Now holds him, at the market rate,
  On a plantation in Kentucky!

  TOM KNOX--who swore in such a tone
  It fairly might be doubted whether
  It really was himself alone,
  Or _Knox_ and Erebus together--
  Has grown a very altered man,
  And, changing oaths for mild entreaty,
  Now recommends the Christian plan
  To savages in Otaheite!

  Alas for young ambition's vow!
  How envious Fate may overthrow it!--
  Poor HARVEY is in Congress now,
  Who struggled long to be a poet;
  SMITH carves (quite well) memorial stones,
  Who tried in vain to make the law go;
  HALL deals in hides; and "PIOUS JONES"
  Is dealing faro in Chicago!

  And, sadder still, the brilliant HAYS,
  Once honest, manly, and ambitious,
  Has taken latterly to ways
  Extremely profligate and vicious;
  By slow degrees--I can't tell how--
  He's reached at last the very groundsel,
  And in New York he figures now,
  A member of the Common Council!